docs: definition of the service, mermaid for the infra and openapi link (#13)
thomas-mauran/LinkedOut: docs/micro-service-architecture.md

# Architecture document
The goal of this document is to provide a clear overview of our microservice infrastructure, explain our choices and provide a clear OpenAPI definition.

## Technologies

#### `Kubernetes`

Our production architecture leverages Kubernetes for container orchestration with Docker as the containerization platform. 
This powerful combination provides scalability, flexibility, and efficient management of containerized applications.

> #### `Docker`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Docker
```

> We mianly use docker for development with many docker-composes to repliate the micro services and their databases but as said before we 
> also use Docker as the containerization platform in our kubernetes environment

Reviewer: Same suggestion as before for the "but as said before we also use Docker as the containerization platform in our Kubernetes environment" part.

```suggestion
We mainly use Docker in the local development environment with Docker Compose to bring up the microservices and their databases, but as said before we also use Docker as the containerization platform in our Kubernetes environment.
```

#### `NATS`

> We chose this solution instead of Kafka for it's lightweight design, low latency and overall simplicity. It also has a built-in mechanism 
> for doing synchronous request-reply messaging, which will be very useful for communication between the API gateway and the microservices. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We chose this solution instead of Kafka for its lightweight design, low latency and overall simplicity. 

It also has a built-in mechanism for doing synchronous request-reply messaging, which will be very useful for communication between the API gateway and the microservices. 
```

> #### `Kotlin`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Kotlin
```

> We chose kotlin as our main backend language because we wanted to try something else than java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We chose Kotlin as our main language for the backend because we wanted to learn a new language that could work in the same environment that Java does.
```

> #### `Spring boot`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Spring
```

> Our architecture utilizes Spring Boot for building and deploying containerized Kotlin applications. 
> Spring Boot simplifies the development process, enhances productivity, and provides a solid foundation for microservices. 
> It was also one of the mandatory elements of the app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our backend uses Spring as the framework for building our microservices.

Spring Boot simplifies the development process, enhances productivity, and provides a solid foundation for microservices. 
```

> #### `React native`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### React Native and Expo
```

> React native was kind of mandatory in this project, we could have been using flutter but since we never tried any of them React native seemed like a 
> great opportunity to complete our React dev stack.
> 
> #### `Expo`
> 
> Our mobile application architecture is built with the Expo framework.
> Expo simplifies the development of cross-platform mobile apps, providing tools and services that enhance the developer experience.
> It was recommanded for the development of this project

Reviewer: Maybe add pros and cons of React Native vs. Flutter?

```suggestion
As for the frontend, we are using React Native to build a mobile application, which will be the primary way of interacting with LinkedOut.

We are also using Expo, which is a framework that brings build tools and rapid development for React Native-based application by providing features such as hot reload, and the generation of package files for Android and iOS. It also abstracts and exposes the services that the mobile operating system provides to the applications.
```

> #### `Github`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### GitHub
```

> We chose github as our primary version controll and collaboration platform since we both use it on a daily basis.
> 
> #### `Github Action`
> 
> Github Action seemed like an obvious choise when using Github since it's great tool to create and manage pipelines for both Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use GitHub as our code host and collaboration platform since we both use it on a daily basis, and we know it the most.

We will also use the CI integrated in GitHub for our CI/CD pipelines, and use its GitHub Actions to simplify this process.
```

> #### `Keycloak`
> [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) is an open source identity and access management solution. 
> We decided to use keycloak instead of another service like to acquire more experience on it since it is becoming one of the market leader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Keycloak

[Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) is an open source identity and access management solution. 

It is used to provide a secure authentication and authorization experience for the users. 

We decided to use Keycloak instead of another service like Zitadel or Auth0 to acquire more experience on it since it is one of the most popular identity providers.
```

- Strong Security Features: Zitadel emphasizes security and includes features such as passwordless authentication and zero-trust architecture.
- Enterprise-Grade: Zitadel positions itself as an enterprise-grade solution, catering to the needs of larger organizations.

**Cons**
- Lesser Adoption: As of my last knowledge update in January 2022, Zitadel might have had fewer users and 
community support compared to more established solutions like Keycloak or Auth0.
- Pricing: While Zitadel offers a free tier, pricing for larger enterprises might be a consideration.

#### Auth0
**Pros**
- Ease of Use: Auth0 is known for its ease of use and quick setup. It provides a user-friendly dashboard and supports various identity scenarios out of the box.
- Large User Base: Auth0 is widely adopted and has a large user base, leading to a robust community and extensive third-party integrations.
- Extensive Documentation: Auth0 provides thorough and well-organized documentation, making it easier for developers to implement and troubleshoot.

**Cons**
- Pricing: Auth0's pricing might be higher compared to some other solutions, especially for large enterprises with high user counts.

> - Limited Customization in Free Tier: Some advanced features and customization options may be restricted in the free tier.

Reviewer: I think you should merge all of that with their corresponding technologies above.

## Services
![microservices](./ms.png)

> ### `API Gateway`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### API Gateway
```

The API Gateway is a single entry point for all clients. 
It provides HTTP endpoints to access the different services in the infrastructures, and does so while checking the authorization claims of the user doing the request. 
This service works closely with the Keycloak service.

> ### `Keycloak`
> 
> It will allow us to provide a secure authentication and authorization service for the client. 

Reviewer: Keycloak is already in the "Technologies" section, no need to repeat it here.

```suggestion
```

> ### `Notification Service`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Notification Service
```

The Notification Service is responsible for sending notifications to the users. The goal is to have a single service responsible for sending notifications to the users.

> ### `Job Service`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Job Service
```

> The Job offer service is responsible for managing jobs, job offers and companies. This service is implemented in kotlin using spring r2dbc as a reactive database driver. 
> We chose r2dbc instead of jpa since being we needed to have asynchronous requests in our architecure to optimize latency. 
> Having a synchronous system would mean we can only treat one request at the time which at larger scale will not be efficient enough. 
> The service uses a postgres database to store it's data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Job Service is responsible for managing jobs, job categories, job offers and companies. This service is implemented in Kotlin using Spring R2DBC as a reactive database driver. 

We chose R2DBC instead of JPA because we need to have asynchronous requests in our architecture to optimize latency. 
Having a synchronous system would mean we could only treat one request at a time which, at larger scale, would not be efficient enough.

The service uses a Postgres database to store its data.
```

> ### `Employer Service`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Employer Service
```

The Employer Service represents the external software that employers uses to manage their job offers. 

LinkedOut calls to this external software for retrieving job offers, or giving evaluations to employers for instance. 
On the other hand, this external software calls to LinkedOut when an employer wants to message a seasonal worker, or to give an evaluation to a seasonal worker for instance.

Since the employer service is normally an external service, we will only implement something that mocks it.

> ### `Profile Service`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Profile Service
```

> The Profile Service is responsible for managing the profiles of the users. This service will be written in Kotlin as a matter of uniformity with the other services. 
> Profiles will be stored in a Postgres database and also uses r2dbc as it's database driver.

Reviewer: No need to say that we write it in Kotlin as we say so in the "Technologies" section.

```suggestion
The Profile Service is responsible for managing the profiles of the users.

Profiles will be stored in a Postgres database and also uses R2DBC as its database driver.
```

> ### `NATS`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### NATS
```

NATS is a "Message-oriented Middleware": it allows services to communicate with each other easily. 

NATS is the central element in our distributed and scalable infrastructure because it provides dynamic discovery and a message broker. 

This will allow us to manage replica sets of services easily since NATS will abstract the concrete connection to the service using its 
mechanism of "subjects" (which are like Kafka's topics) and will load balance messages between all consumers subscribed to a subject in particular. 

> ### `Message Service`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Message Service
```

> The message service is here to manage communications between seasonal workers and employers, allowing them to tchat using an instant messagery.
> This service will have persistent storage provided by a Postgresql database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Message Service is here to manage communications between seasonal workers and employers, allowing them to chat using instant messaging. 

This service will have persistent storage provided by a Postgres database.
```

> ### `Recommendation Service`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Recommendation Service
```

> The Recommendation Service is used to recommend job offers to seasonal workers. 
> It will have a read access to the job and profile services and replicate the data in a graph database (probably Neo4j) to find connections 
> between related items and provide scores on the job offers for a seasonal worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Recommendation Service is used to recommend job offers to seasonal workers. 

It will have read access to the job and profile services and replicate the data in a graph database (such as Neo4j) to find connections between related items and provide scores on the job offers for a seasonal worker.
```

## OpenAPI

> We decided to create an OpenAPI specification document that documents every route accessible from the API gateway for the mobile application 
> to normalize our interfaces and make the whole process easier by allowing us to architecture our API early and implement a mock server for it.
> The document is available [here](./openapi/api_gateway.yml). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We decided to create an OpenAPI specification document that documents every route accessible from the API gateway for the mobile application to normalize our interfaces and make the whole process easier by allowing us to architecture our API early and implement a mock server for it.

The document is available [here](./openapi/api_gateway.yml). 
```

### `Notification Service`

The Notification Service is responsible for sending notifications to the users. The goal is to have a single service responsible for sending notifications to the users.

### `Job offer service`

The Job offer service is responsible for managing jobs, job offers and companies. This service is implemented in kotlin using spring r2dbc as a reactive database driver. The service uses a postgres database. 

### `Employer Service`

The employer service represents the external software that employers uses to manage their job offers. LinkedOut calls to this external software for retrieving job offers, or giving evaluations to employers for instance. On the other hand, this external software calls to LinkedOut when an employer wants to message a seasonal worker, or to give an evaluation to a seasonal worker for instance. Since the employer service is an external service we will not have to implement it.

### `Profile service`

The Profile service is responsible for managing the profiles of the users. This profile will be written using Kotlin and graddle as a matter of uniformity with the others service. Profiles will be stored using a Postresql database.

> ### `NATS`
> NATS is a "message oriented middleware" it allows services to exchange data easily. NATS allows us to build a distributed and scalable infrastructure by using dynamic discovery. This will allow us to manage replicasets of services easily since NATS will act as a. This will allow us to manage replicasets of services easily since NATS will act as a loadbalancer and distribute the requests to it's known services. We chose this solution instead of kafka for it's lightweight design, low latency and overall simplicity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `NATS`

NATS is a "Message-oriented Middleware": it allows services to communicate with each other easily. 

NATS is the central element in our distributed and scalable infrastructure because it provides dynamic discovery and a message broker. 

This will allow us to manage replica sets of services easily since NATS will abstract the concrete connection to the service using its mechanism of "subjects" (which are like Kafka's topics) and will load balance messages between all consumers subscribed to a subject in particular. 

We chose this solution instead of Kafka for it's lightweight design, low latency and overall simplicity. It also has a built-in mechanism for doing synchronous request-reply messaging, which will be very useful for communication between the API gateway and the microservices. 
```

> ### `Message service`
> The message service is here to manage communications between seasonal workers and employers, allowing them to tchat using an instant messagery. This service will have persistent storage provided by a Postgresql database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `Message Service`

The Message Service is here to manage communications between seasonal workers and employers, allowing them to chat using instant messaging. This service will have persistent storage provided by a Postgres database.
```

> ### `Recommandation service`
> The recommandation service is used to recommand job offers to seasonal workers. It will have a read access to the job and profile services and replicate the data in a graph database to find connexion between items and easily match jobs and workers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `Recommendation Service`

The Recommendation Service is used to recommend job offers to seasonal workers. It will have a read access to the job and profile services and replicate the data in a graph database to find connections between related items and provide scores on the job offers for a seasonal worker.
```

> ## OpenAPI
> 
> We decided to create an OpenAPI document including every route accessible for the frontend app to normalize our interfaces and make the whole process easier.
> The document is available [here]("./openapi/api_gateway.yml").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## OpenAPI

We decided to create an OpenAPI specification document that documents every route accessible from the API gateway for the mobile application to normalize our interfaces and make the whole process easier by allowing us to architecture our API early and implement a mock server for it.

The document is available [here](./openapi/api_gateway.yml).
```
